human history is told by the energy we
use
at first we had to use our muscles then
we learned to control fire
we industrialized the world using coal
and oil and entered the atomic age when
we learned how to split a nucleus
at each step we increased our energy
harvest to a scale never seen before and
advanced as a species
currently we're slowly transitioning to
renewables and if we're lucky fusion
energy will become viable in the future
as humanity progresses further if we
don't destroy ourselves or our habitat
we will likely gain complete control of
our planet's resources
at that stage we'll probably begin to
look outwards for new places to expand
into
but space is hard and establishing a
serious human presence in the solar
system will require ungodly amounts of
energy
luckily we know where to find it
the sun the ultimate source of energy
a furnace 100 quintillion times more
powerful than our most efficient nuclear
reactor
it shines with the energy of a trillion
nuclear bombs per second
so how do we get this energy
not some of it
all of it
[Music]
if we want to collect the most energy
physically possible we'll have to build
the largest most ambitious structure in
the universe the dyson sphere a mega
structure that encompasses a whole star
to capture its power output
for an intelligent species building a
dyson sphere is a technological leap on
a par with the discovery of fire for our
ancestors
the transition from a planetary species
to an interstellar species
it would usher in an age of exploration
and expansion on a scale we can barely
imagine
so what would it look like
a solid shell enveloping the sun is
probably not the way to go
a large rigid body like that would be
vulnerable to impacts possibly
shattering
it would be liable to drift and could
crash straight into the sun
a more viable design for a dyson sphere
might be a dyson swarm an enormous set
of orbiting panels that collect the
sun's power and beam it elsewhere such a
swarm would give humanity basically
unlimited energy
but building it won't be easy
the sun is very big so we need a lot of
satellites
if each satellite is a square kilometer
we'd need around 30 quadrillion to
surround the sun
even if they're built as lightly as
possible we need about 100 quintillion
tons of material
and then we need the energy to actually
put the parts together and deliver them
to their positions around the sun
on top of all that we need to have a
permanent infrastructure set up in space
to start building
let's assume for the purposes of this
video that our descendants will take
care of that and want to create the
megastructure
we can sort the challenges into three
main categories materials design and
energy
to get the vast amounts of raw materials
required for our dyson swarm we'll have
to largely disassemble a whole planet
of the planets available mercury is the
best candidate
it's the closest to the sun and very
metal ridge
close to the sun also means less moving
stuff around and mercury has no
atmosphere and only about a third of the
surface gravity of earth making it
comparatively easy to launch material
into space
next we should consider the design of
our swarm simpler is better
conventional solar panels are far too
intricate and short-lived our satellites
need to operate without repairs or
intervention for astronomically long
times and they need to be cheap to
produce
they're most likely going to be enormous
mirrors which refocus sunlight to
central collecting stations like in
concentrated solar power on earth
to build and launch them efficiently
they must be incredibly light made of
little more than polished metal full
bound to some supports
and last we need the energy to build and
launch the swarm itself
taking apart a planet and launching
things into space requires an enormous
amount of energy for example if we used
all the fossil fuels and uranium on
earth and we were perfectly efficient we
could only launch as much mass as mount
everest into space
a rather meager accomplishment compared
to planetary disassembly
to get the energy needed to build a
dyson sphere it's almost as if you're
going to need the power output of a
dyson sphere
but that's okay there's plenty of
sunlight to be had on mercury so let's
get to work
humans are expensive to keep alive and
are very sensitive to the environment
so we'd want to automate as much as
possible ideally we'd have a small crew
of controllers who oversee an army of
autonomous machines doing the actual
work
there are four major pieces of
technology required
solar collectors miners refiners and
launch equipment
the solar collectors are going to give
us the energy we need to disassemble the
planet
to start maybe we deploy something like
one square kilometer of them either as
mirrors or as traditional solar panels
they'll provide the energy to run our
miners which strip mine the surface of
the planet and our refiners which
extract valuable elements and fabricate
them into our swarm satellites
to get them into space we need a
creative and efficient solution rockets
are too expensive and difficult to
de-orbit and reuse
instead we'll want to use a sort of
railgun a long electromagnetic track
which launches our satellites at high
speeds
our swarm satellites would be packed
tight for launch unfurling like an
enormous origami once in orbit
from this point we can take advantage of
exponential growth using the energy of
the existing parts of the swarm to build
more infrastructure on mercury and
launch new panels faster and faster
each panel provides the energy to build
another those two work together to build
the next two four become eight eight
becomes sixteen and so on
within just about sixty doubling times
the sun would be completely surrounded
by solar panels and this can happen
quickly if a square kilometer of solar
collectors takes a month to build we
could be done in a decade if only our
infrastructure on the planet's surface
can keep up with the quickly growing
budget of energy
even collecting one percent of the sun's
energy is an unbelievable change in our
species energy budget
we could create the infrastructure to be
basically unlimited amounts of energy
around the solar system for all sorts of
projects
colonies on other worlds terraforming
planets constructing more megastructures
or even traveling to other stars
it could be the start of an interstellar
civilization
based on physics alone this is not just
possible but easy
it's such a simple process and such a
necessary step for any species to expand
beyond their home planet that many
astronomers think there are probably
dyson spheres already out there in the
milky way we haven't spotted any yet but
they could be there
it's far from certain that humanity will
ever get to this point
our attention is too often focused on
short-term political gains and conflicts
that will not matter in the long run
but if we survive the challenges we've
set ourselves we could potentially
become the first species in the universe
to create a structure with the scope of
a star
if we do it the only limitation left
will be our own imagination
[Music]
we've just hit you with a lot of pretty
wild claims and crazy concepts
if you're like us and enjoy using the
power of science to determine absurd
ways to destroy stuff you might want to
hear how you can come up with something
like that yourself
brilliant is a problem-solving website
that helps you learn stuff through fun
puzzles that split up a complex problem
into bite-sized chunks and build up to
an interesting conclusion
it helps you understand how science
works by actually using it instead of
just memorizing a bunch of stuff
brilliant has tons of interesting
courses and puzzles on things like
quantum computing astronomy and logic
and even dyson spheres
if you visit brilliant.org nutshell or
click the link in the description you
can sign up for free and learn all kinds
of things
as a bonus for quotes out viewers the
first 688 people will also get 20 off
their annual membership
with brilliant you can finish each day a
little bit smarter and just maybe you
can help to expand the human species
into the universe one day
we love dyson spheres so much that we've
also made a poster about them it will
look pretty on your wall but also has
some information about the concept of a
dyson sphere a great way to start a
conversation or you can just stare at it
and dream about the future go get it
here
[Music]
you